.TH "PACCAT" "1" "2021\-10\-26" "paccat v0.1.0 "Paccat Manual"
.nh
.ad l
.SH NAME
paccat \- Print pacman package files

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fIpaccat\fR [options] <target> <files>
\fIpaccat\fR [options] [targets] -- <files>
\fIpaccat\fR [options] [-<Q|F>] [targets] -- <files>
.fi
.sp
a target can be specified as:
    <pkgname>, <repo>/<pkgname>, <url> or <file>.
.sp
files can be specified as just the filename or the full path.

.SH DESCRIPTION
Print pacman package files.

paccat prints files from packages independent of your system by downloading the needed
packages and extracting the needed files.


.SH SYNTAX HIGHLIGHTING
paccat will use \fIbat\fR for syntax highlighting if it is installed.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP

.TP
.B \-F, \-\-files
Use files database to search for files before deciding to download.

.TP
.B \-Q, \-\-query
Use local database to search for files before deciding to download.

.TP
.B \-r, \-\-root <path>
Set an alternative root directory.

.TP
.B \-b, \-\-dbpath <path>
Set an alternative database location.

.TP
.B \-\-config <file>
Use an alternative pacman.conf.

.TP
.B \-\-color <when>
Specify when to enable coloring. Valid options are always, never, or auto.

.TP
.B \-y, \-\-refresh
Download fresh package databases from the server. Pass twice to force download even if
databases are up to date.

.TP
.B \-\-cachedir <path>
Set an alternative cache directory.

.TP
.B \-a, \-\-all
print all matches of files instead of just the first.

.TP
.B \-x, \-\-regex
Enable searching using regular expressions.

.TP
.B \-\-binary
Print binary files

.TP
.B \-e, \-\-extract
Extract matched files to the current directory.

.TP
.B \-q, \-\-quiet
Print file names instead of file content.

.TP
.B \-i, \-\-install
Install matched files to the system.

.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Print help information.

.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Print version information.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B paccat grub  etc/default/grub
Print the contents of 'etc/default/grub' from the grub package.

.TP
.B paccat pacman pacman.conf
Print the contents of the first file named 'pacman.conf' from the pacman package.

.TP
.B paccat \-F \-\- pacman.conf
Print the contents of the first file named 'pacman.conf' in the repos

.TP
.B paccat \-x pacman mkinitcpio \-\- '\\.conf^'
Print the contents of all files ending in '.conf' from both the pacman and mkinitcpio packages.

.TP
.B paccat ~/pkgs/my\-pkg\-1.0.0\-1.pkg.tar.zst myfile
Print the contents of 'myfile' from a package tarball.

.TP
.B paccat https://archlinux.org/packages/extra/x86_64/git/download git\-blame.1.gz
Download and print the contents of 'git-blame.1.gz' from the git package.";

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pacman (8)

.SH BUGS
Please report bugs to our GitHub page \fBhttps://github.com/Morganamilo/paccat\fR.

.SH AUTHORS
Morgan <morganamilo@archlinux.org>
